Documentation on using DID with single Page applications (#36)
did-app/www: docs/spa/index.md

---
layout: doc
title: SPA integration guide
abstract: How to integrate Single Page Webapps with DID.app
---

> 

Reviewer: Please can we have another line break in here between the first sentence and the abstract?  Presume just add a line in MD>

Author: That won't make any difference to the output

Reviewer: So is this not possible in the constraints of MD?

> Single Page WebApps (SPAs) can use DID.app can authenticate users via OpenID Connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Single Page WebApps (SPAs) can use DID.app for authentication using OpenID Connect.
```

> Authenticating End Users takes two steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two steps to authenticating End Users:
```

1. Redirect a user to DID.app with an authentication request from your application.

> 2. Fetch the user information from the authentication response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Fetch the user's information from the authentication response.
```

> Fetching user information for authenticated users can be achieved via two methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fetching user information from the authentication response can be done in one of two ways:
```

> 1. Have an API endpoint on your application backend fetch an id token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Have an API endpoint on your application's backend to fetch an id token.  Or;
```

> 2. Use PKCE and fetch the id token from within the web app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Use PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange) and fetch the id token from within the web app.
```

Author: Have I not defined this earlier? If not it should be "Word Word (WW)" at first usage

> Use option 1. if you are using cookie based sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using cookie based sessions, use option 1.  
```

> If using DID.app to send invite emails you will have to use option 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using DID.app to send invite emails you must use option 1.
```

### Create Authentication Request

Redirect the End User to the authorization url: [https://auth.did.app/oidc/authorize](https://auth.did.app/oidc/authorize).
Provide the details of the authentication request as query parameters.

> 

Reviewer: Presumably an SPA developer would know what to do here?  How do I send the end user to the URL with the params described?

Author: Yeah I think this is too framework specific to have an example here. This is where we need to start having Vue.js or other front end guides.

Reviewer: Ah right ok. This wasn't clear is my feedback but now I know it's an appendix then that's quite helpful.  Worth making it more explicit?

Reviewer: Fair enough :-)

- client_id  
  (Required) Provided by DID.app and specific to your application.

- redirect_uri  
  (Required) An endpoint on your application that handles the authentication response.

- response_mode  
  How the code will be sent to the redirect endpoint.
  Recommended value for SPA applications is `fragment`, data will be encoded in the fragment of the `redirect_uri`.

- prompt  
  A value of `create` will display the "create an account" UI, any other value will show the "Sign in" UI.

- code_challenge  
  See section on [PKCE](#pkce)

- code_challenge_method  
  See section on [PKCE](#pkce)

### Handle the Authentication Response

A user that has clicked a magic link from DID.app is redirected back to your application with an authentication response.
The authentication response will be encoded in the fragment (the part after '#') of the redirect_uri set earlier.

Decode the authentication response and extract the code from it.

```js
let fragment = window.location.hash.substring(1)
let params = new URLSearchParams(fragment)
let code = params.get("code")
let error = params.get("error")

window.location.replace("#")
```

> The final line is not required, but can make for a nicer user experience.

Reviewer: if what?  if there is an error?

Author: It just cleans up the URL bar,

Reviewer: Why not include that note?

> Replacing the location will remove the code from the browsers navigation bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replacing the location will remove the code from the browser's navigation bar.
```

### Fetch User Data

> #### Option 1. Using backend endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Option 1, using backend API endpoint
```

**The CLIENT_SECRET for you application must not be used in your front end.**
Send a request to your backend containg the code extracted in the previous section.
Call DID.app's token endpoint to exchange your code for an id token.

```js
const fetch = require("node-fetch");

let response = await fetch("https://auth.did.app/oidc/token", {
  method: "POST",
  body: `client_id=[CLIENT_ID]&client_secret=[CLIENT_SECRET]&code=${code}`
});
let data = response.json();
```

> The data will contain your users information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data will contain the user's information.
```

<a name="pkce"></a>
#### Option 2. Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)

Using PKCE allows your client application to retrieve the id token from a code directly, without exposing your client secret.
To use PKCE you need to send a `code_challenge` with your authorization request.

Generate a code challenge and code verifier.

See [code samples](#generating-pkce) at the end for implementation of the functions used here.

```js
let codeVerifier = randomUrlBase64(32)
let codeChallenge = await hashUrlBase64(codeVerifier)
```

The code challenge and code challenge method is sent with the authorization request.
The code challenge method is `sha256`, it is the only value currently supported.

Now your client can make a call to the token endpoint, instead of sending a client secret, it instead sends the code verifer.

```js
let response = await fetch("https://auth.did.app/oidc/token", {
  method: "POST",
  body: `client_id=[CLIENT_ID]&code_verifier=${code_verifier}&code=${code}`
});
let data = response.json();
```

> The data will contain your users information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data will contain the user's information.
```

### Using user information

In both cases the returned payload will contain an id_token, access_token and userinfo.

```json
{
  "userinfo": {
    "sub": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
    "email": "user@example",
    "email_verified": true
  },
  "id_token": "COMPACT JWT",
  "access_token": "COMPACT JWT"
}
```

The `sub` is the identifier of a user within your application.
It is intended to be used as the primary identifier of your user and does not change.

> You should not rely on a users email being constant over time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should not rely on a user's email being constant over time.
```

Reviewer: This feels like something that is relevant in all integrations or not?

At this point authentication is complete.
It is up to your service to handle things from here.

For backend applications this will involve starting a session for the authenticated user.
How this is done will depend on the platform, or framework that you are using.

<a name="generating-pkce"></a>
### Generating code challenge and verifier

> 

Reviewer: What is this section trying to achieve?  I felt like I hadn't understood the relevance of this bit.

Author: This is basically an appendix to where the function `randomUrlBase64` is used earlier in the post

Reviewer: Ah right ok. This wasn't clear is my feedback but now I know it's an appendix then that's quite helpful. Worth making it more explicit?

Author: How, would you do that?
